#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass scrlttr2
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Address
Aix-Marseille Université
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

ISM2, UMR-CNRS-7313
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Campus St.
 Jérôme service 561
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

F-13397 Marseille cedex 20
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

France
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

E-mail Yannick.Carissan@univ-amu.fr
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Tel (33) +4.91.28.91.68
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Fax (33) +4.91.28.91.79
\end_layout

\begin_layout Name
Yannick Carissan
\end_layout

\begin_layout Opening
Dear editor,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This is the second submission of this article entitled 
\series bold

\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Atomic pseudo-potentials for reproducing the valence electron behaviour
 of sp
\begin_inset Formula $\bm{^{2}}$
\end_inset

 carbon atoms 
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset


\series default
 in which we present new pseudo-potentials to be used for sp² carbon atoms.
 It was not accepted for publication in the Journal of Computational Chemistry
 but we would like to be given a second chance for publication in this journal
 as we strongly believe that it is a work relevant to this journal.
 We have worked on improving the manuscript over the last year.
 We have taken into account all remarks made by the referees, improved the
 presentation and the discussion to clarify some important points, added
 new results and an analysis of our results by use of a topological analysis
 of the density (AIM).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this work, we aim at reproducing the anisotropy of the hybridised carbon
 atom by employing semi-local atomic pseudo-potentials as already implemented
 in most quantum chemistry program packages.
 Thus, no programming from the user is required.
 Only the parameters we extract and publish in this work are needed to reproduce
 these potentials for any molecule with such carbons.
 These pseudo-potentials for recreating sp² carbon atoms are built and tested
 as a building block for various all-trans-polyenes and polycyclic aromatic
 hydrocarbons.
 The pseudo-carbon we develop has a nuclear charge of 1, thus only one electron
 is treated explicitly.
 It is employed in ab-initio calculations in which several physical characterist
ics including 1st ionisation and excitation energies, as well as the HOMO
 energy, are found to be well-reproduced by the pseudo-system.
 Furthermore and newly, we show in this work that highly excited states
 (20 singlets and 20 triplets using TD-DFT) can be reproduced with our method
 at low computational cost.
 Finally an AIM study shows that the 
\begin_inset Formula $\pi$
\end_inset

 density is very similar to the 
\begin_inset Formula $\pi$
\end_inset

 density of all-electron calculations.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time such a potential, localised
 fully to the atom which it replaces, has been developed.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We think, this work is in line with aims and scope of the Journal of Computation
al Chemistry.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The authors are :
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Alexander Punter
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Dr.
 Paola Nava
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Dr.
 Yannick Carissan, corresponding author (see address in the header)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Closing
With our Best Regards,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Name
Yannick Carissan
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
