#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass scrlttr2
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Address
Aix-Marseille Université
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

ISM2, UMR-CNRS-7313
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Campus St.
 Jérôme service 561
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

F-13397 Marseille cedex 20
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

France
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

E-mail Yannick.Carissan@univ-amu.fr
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Tel (33) +4.91.28.91.68
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Fax (33) +4.91.28.91.79
\end_layout

\begin_layout Name
Yannick Carissan
\end_layout

\begin_layout Opening
Dear editor,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Please find below the answer to the referees concerning our article entitled
 
\series bold

\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Atomic pseudo-potentials for reproducing the valence electron behaviour
 of sp
\begin_inset Formula $\bm{^{2}}$
\end_inset

carbon atoms
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset


\series default
.
 After the additions we did due to the referees suggestions, we believe
 that this work is more convincing and we are grateful to the referees to
 have pushed us to improve this work.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Answers to referee 1:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote

\shape slanted
1) Why Hartree-Fock? The parametrisation of the pseodo-potential is based
 on the results of a HF- calculation results obtained for a CH3 radical
 and C2H4 molecule.
 Systems of this size (i.e.
 10 and 16 electrons, respecively) can be efficiently treated at a correlated
 level of theory such as MP2 or coupled- cluster theory (RIMP2 and RI-CC2
 in case of TURBOMOLE), so the authors have to explain why the Hartree-Fock
 methods was their method of choice.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We consider Hartree-Fock as method of choice for extraction of our pseudopotenti
als as it is unbiased in terms of electronic correlation (a sentence was
 added at the beginnig of Section: Pseudo-potential definition).
 On top of it, one can add electronic correlation with any method (DFT,
 CI, etc.).
 We further tested our pseudo-potentials within the CASPT2 framework (end
 of Section: Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation

\shape slanted
2) Why not B3LYP? This work compares the results obtained using the pseudo-poten
tial model to DFT calculations of the rather popular PBE and PBE0 functionals,
 in addition to the comparably rarely employed TPSS and TPSSh functionals.
 Although the suitability of the B3LYP functional is (rightly) the focus
 of continuing debates in the literature, it still represents one of the
 most influential developments in theoretical/computational chemistry, and
 cannot be ignored.
 For this reason, the authors should also compare to results obtained using
 this method.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We chose one functional for each DFT type to systematically climb the Jacob's
 ladder (one GGA, its hybrid formulation, one meta-GGA and its hybrid formulatio
n).
 We computed the spectra for the polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons for B3LYP
 and since we obtained similar results as for PBE0, we included the B3LYP
 results in the Supporting Information.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation

\shape slanted
3) One point that is not clearly discussed in the manuscript is the source
 of the molecular structures employed in the calculations.
 Were the structures subject to energy minimization at the respective levels,
 or were the same structures applied for all levels of theory considered?
 If the latter is true, which method was used to minimize the structures,
 and why did the authors choose this particular method?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
That is entirely true.
 We added the missing piece of information in the computational details
 section, which has been moved before the results and discussion section.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation

\shape slanted
4) A particularly interesting finding in this study highlighted by the authors
 is the fact that although the system was parameterized using the comparably
 simple CH3 radical and a C2H4 molecule, the pseudo- potential approach
 delivers adequate results for aromatic systems as well.
 In order to further push this benchmarking, the inclusion of a C 60 fullerene
 molecule into the test set would mark an important and highly challenging
 milestone of the proposed approach.
 The authors are highly encouraged to include the respective data into the
 revised manuscrip
\shape default
t.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This suggestion together with the comments of referee 2 on the accuracy
 and speed of these pseudopotentials led us to test our methods for much
 larger systems than the one studied in the original version, as well as
 for distorted systems.
 We have chosen two examples, which we believe address these points: a coronene
 molecule embedded in a carbon nanotube and increasingly larger helicenes.
 The first example shows that despite the fact that of our method does not
 reach chemical accuracy in the case of highly energetical excited states
 (ionisation energies being the extreme case of an electronic excitation),
 it can be useful to determine chemical properties in large systems.
 The second example, shows that this method can help to solve highly difficult
 assignations (the determination of absolute configuration of helicenes
 is not a trivial task) in a limited time.
 It could be beneficially combined with highly efficient semi empirical
 approaches like the sTDA of Grimme and coworkers.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation

\shape slanted
5) Although some details regarding the pseudo-potential are included in
 the supplementary material, it appears that no data file (for instance
 in TURBOMOLE format) is provided.
 A key aspect justifying the development of basis sets and pseudo-potential
 is to provide the data in a form that can be employed by other researchers.
 For this reason an exemplary data file of the pseudo-potential along with
 suitable basis functions for the remaining electrons should be provided
 in the revised version of the manuscript.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
An example of input was included.
 The other minor corrections suggested by referee 1 were also done.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Answers to referee 2:
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Standard

\shape italic
1) What are the practical advantages of the present scheme in comparison
 with the previous one (J.
 Comput.
 Chem.
 34, 49, 2013)? I understand the potentials are different because the previous
 one requires information of the center of the C-C bond.
 However, the accuracies are similar.
 In addition, the efficiencies will also be close because the both schemes
 treat one electron for sp2 carbon atom
\shape default
.
\begin_inset Separator plain
\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Standard
The fact not to have to place a potential at the center of the bond is not
 minor.
 We are confident that this would allow us for the developpement of a geometry
 optimization procedure.
 This is possible only because the potentials can be placed relatively to
 one atomic center and not relatively to two or more centers.
 Furthermore, we propose a physical interpretation of the new pseudo-potentials.
 As we added in Section 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Physical meaning
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

: This provides a conceptual advantage with respect to our previous work,
 where the pseudo- potentials were simply relying on a shifting of the orbitals
 to map the reference ones.
 OTHER POINTS: DISTORTED SYSTEMS, C1?
\begin_inset Separator plain
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation

\shape slanted
2) What are the advantages in comparison with the all-electron calculations.
 The authors showed that the present scheme reduces the prefactor of the
 calculations.
 However, the scaling will be the same, which is important for calculations
 of large molecules.
 Actually, calculations of the excitation energies for large polyene chains
 (n = 5-500) and carbon nanotubes were reported using linear-scaling divide-and-
conquer method at the TDDFT level (J.
 Chem.
 Phys.
 146, 124123, 2017).
 In addition, the errors between 0.18 and 0.3 eV or of about 10% for the approxima
tions in pseudopotentials are too large and not acceptable in the recent
 quantum chemical calculations.
 At least, the error with less than 1 millihartree (~0.03 eV) is required.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We are aware that other methods exist to lower scaling of quantum chemistry
 calculations, and we are very glad about that.
 We believe that it is the combination of all these methods (provided that
 they are used in a relevant framework and can actually be used together)
 that leads quantum chemistry to tackle problems of large size.
 Our point of view is not that we should oppose these methods as one being
 faster than the other, but that we could combine them to become more efficient.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We shall address the point on the accuracy together with the next point:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation

\shape slanted
3) The applicabilities of the present scheme is too limited.
 In large planar pi electron systems such as graphene, the inclusion of
 the static electron correlation is normally essential.
 Therefore, the frozen electrons in p orbitals are also important.
 So the scheme can 
\strikeout on
only
\strikeout default
 (not?) be applied to nonplanar pi electron systems such as large helicenes
 and carbonanotubes.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
To the reader: the strikeout of 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

only
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 and its replacement by 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

not
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 is ours as we believe this is what referee 2 meant.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
About accuracy, we expect errors that are inherent in the method: we do
 not treat explicitely the σ electrons and the effect of their reorganisation
 can not be entirely recovered, for example in cation calculations for computing
 ionisation energies.
 For comparison, we performed all-electron calculations where the σ orbitals
 are kept frozen in the cation as they are obtained in the neutral system.
 Errors are similar as for the pseudo-systems, as expected.
 We explicitely treat this point in the paper (Sections: Pseudo-potential
 definition; All-trans-polyenes).
 However, as discussed here above, we were able to determine chemical properties
 of large systems and we were able to compute distorted systems (helicenes
 and a nanotube containing a coronene molecule, see point 4 in the answer
 to the first referee).
 Furthermore, we test the applicability of our scheme to other methods and
 we used it in the framework of the CASPT2 theory for benzene, naphtlene
 and anthracene.
 Results are added in Section: Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\shape italic
4) In “INTRODUCTION” section, the authors should cite and describe some
 references[...] In addition, the authors may show the total effective Hamiltonian
 including W operator of Eq.
 (4) in order to easily understand the method for readers.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Suggested references have been added.
 We added the definition of the mono-electronic operator to make the W operator
 to appear and to gain in clarity (Section: Pseudo-potential definition).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Furthermore, the 'computational details' section was moved before the 'results
 and discussion' session.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We think, this work is in line with aims and scope of the International
 Journal of Quantum Chemistry and we hope that it could be accepted for
 publication.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The authors are :
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Alexander Punter
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Dr.
 Paola Nava
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Dr.
 Yannick Carissan, corresponding author (see address in the header)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Closing
With our Best Regards,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Name
Yannick Carissan
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
